Now we go to the beginning of our clip where we want to start the mask.
We turn on the key frame tool by clicking the stopwatch.
Click our mask so that it shows up in the timeline, that's a little bit of a trick here.
If we don't have our mask selected, the wire frame, which is what this is called that we just created,
won't show up.
So if you have your mask on your footage and you're like, what the hell, where where is it at?
I'm clicking my color correction layer and I don't see where my mask went.
You physically have to click it.
Now it's going to make the wireframe show up.
And now we can move it around.
So we set a Kiffmeyer beginning.
We could go as far as to move point by point if we wanted to.
But we're not going to really get too crazy on this example.
But what we'll do is now go to the end of the clip and move the mouse to the proper place, and we can
kind of move a few points around here, just so it kind of contours a little bit more of where our subject
is.
Fix any areas they're sticking out that we don't need to be lit.
And now we have, as you can see here, a point at the beginning and a point at the end.
So if we scrub through, we'll see our masks start to transform and change and follow our subject.
Now, what I've found is the most effective way to really create these key frames is.
When I used to do is go like, OK, scart, scrub for scrub for it.
OK, now the person is in a really different position.
Make a change and then I'll go forward, scrub for it, scrub forward, and then, OK, now make a change
to contour a little bit more and scrub forward.
And again, I would keep doing that.
Boom, boom, boom.
But if we'd go to the end.
Now, it's only been tracking her in between from key frame to key frame.
If I undo that and now imagine going every single few frames and trying to do that, you have to show
you're editing software where she's being on those frames and you're doing it.
If you don't do that and you do it first at the beginning.
And then add one to the end.
Now, what it's going to do is, like we saw before, transform with our subject a lot more.
Easily.
It's moving with her.
And now instead of going frame, frame, frame, change, frame, frame, frame change, we're going
to go to the middle.
OK.
And then we're going to change it.
And what we do is we start.
Breaking these moments in half, so the key frame is telling it where to be here, where to be there
and where to be there.
Now we're going to split that in the middle again.
And this will allow for you to create less key frames and do a lot less work in the long run because.
If I go here to create a key frame, it already has a reference of here where to be and here where to
be, which is perfect.
If I were to go here, here, here, here, here, it doesn't have a reference from.
Further in the video of where it should be.
So this is a lot quicker of a way, I'm hoping that that makes sense.
At the end of the day, we're just saving a little bit of time and having to make less key frames.
Because the ordering were choosing to put these key frames in is making our mask naturally go to the
areas where we wanted to be.
Rather than having to tell it every single time.
So we've created one, two, three, four, five keyframes, which is good enough for this example.
Let's kind of see.
So as I'm playing this back, I can kind of see some of the especially right here, if we go here,
we can see almost like a ghostly halo.
So what we're going to do is we're just going to feather this out even more.
That's going to blend the edges of where the effect is versus where the effect isn't, which is going
to make anything that's kind of distracting from our layer disappear.
So I'm going to hit 250 on the feather and let's hit play.
So that looks pretty good.
If we don't have the laser, here's our original with our laser.
We've got a pretty well lit subject.
So you don't want to rely on this by saying, oh, no, we all need to put a light there.
We'll fix it in post-production.
No, you want to get the best footage in the production process as possible.
But when there are some things like this, we can do a little bit of ninja action to get a good looking
shot.